
E-Quarantine:A Smart Health System for Monitoring Coronavirus Patientsfor RemotelyQuarantineDoaa Mohey El-Din1,*, Aboul Ella Hassanein1,*,Ehab E. Hassanein1, and Walaa M.E. Hussein21Faculty of Computers and Artificial Intelligence, Cairo University, Egypt2Clinical Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Cairo University, Egypt*Scientific Research Group in Egypt (SRGE)d.mohey@alumni.fci-cu.edu.eg,aboitcairo@cu.edu.eg,   E.Ezat@fci-cu.edu.egw.mohy@pg.cu.edu.egAbstract—coronavirus becomes  officially a global pandemic due tothe speed spreading off  in  various  countries.An  increasing  number  of  infected  with  this  disease  causes  the Inability problem to fully care in hospitals and afflict many doctors and nurses inside the hospitals. This paper proposesa smart health system that monitors the patients holding the Coronavirus  remotely.  Due  to  protect  the  lives  of  the  health  services  members  (like physicians  and  nurses)  from  infection.This  smart  system  observes  the  people  with  this disease based on putting many sensors to record many  features of their patients in every second.  These  parameters  include  measuring  the  patient's  temperature, respiratoryrate, pulse  rate,  blood  pressure,  and  time.  The  proposed system saves  lives  and improves making decisions in dangerous cases. It proposes using artificial intelligence and Internet-of-things  to  make  remotely  quarantine  and  developdecisions in varioussituations. Itprovides  monitoring  patients  remotely  and guarantees giving  patients  medicines  and getting complete health care  without anyone getting sick  with this disease. Ittargets two people's  slides  the  most  serious  medical  conditions  and  infection  and  the  lowest  serious medical  conditions  in  their  houses.  Observing  in  hospitals  for  the  most  serious  medical cases  that  cause  infection  in  thousands of healthcare  members  so  there  is  a  big  need  to uses  it.    Other  less  serious  patients  slide,  this  system  enables  physicians  to  monitor patients and getthe healthcare from patient's houses to save places for the critical cases in hospitals. Keywords—Smart   Health,   Internet-of-Things,   Artificial   Intelligence, Multi-modal Fusion, Coronavirus,QuarantineI.INTRODUCTION Recently, coronavirus(COVID 19) becomes a pandemic virus that patients reach more than1.856.798around the world[1].In April2020, the death numbers from this  virus  reach 114.312around  the  world[1,  2].The  percentage  of  deaths 
achieves  more  than  18%  daily. Thespreading  of  infected  people  and  deaths numbersare increasing daily.Most people are affected bypatients are healthcare members   whether   doctors   or   nurses.   The   recent   statistics of   the   infected healthcare members in doctors and nurses reach more than 65.000[3]. Thousands of  them  die  from  the  infection ofpatients   holding  coronavirus  in  serving healthcare in hospitals.So,  there  is  a  big  need  to  go  forward  the  remote  healthcare especially in  the highly  infected  viruses  such  as  COVID  19  to  save  lives.Remotely  healthcare monitoring requires multiple sensors to record the parameter of each case inreal-timeto  improve  the healthcare  services  in  speed  time  and decision  making remotely[4].  The  smart  healthcare  system  relies  on  the  integration  between artificial intelligence and internet-of-things technologies. Previous research targetare monitoringthepatientin various diseases such as debates,  diets, and after  surgical  operations.  They  enable  physicians  to  observe multiple  patients  at  the  same  time.  That  eases  the  system  to  be highly  flexible, and accurate.The  used  sensors are  variant  types  whether  wearable  or  built-in sensors  or  mobile  sensors[5].These  systems  require  interpreting  the  extracted data from these sensors to reach the main objective. This  paper  presents the EQuarantine  system  that  isaproposed  smart  Health System  for  monitoring  coronavirus  patients  for  remote  quarantine.  It  becomes important to save thousands of lives from infection or death. It is based on fused multiple  data  from  various  sensors  to  detect  the  degree  of  development  of  the disease and the  seriousness of the health condition.It is based on monitoring the readings'heart  pulse, respiratoryrate,  blood  pressure, Blood  PH  levelin  real-time.It proposes to be a time-series data that includes sequenced data points in a time  domain. The  data  extracted from  multiple  sensors are gathered sequentially based  on  multi-variable  measurements. It  proposes  a  classification  of  patient's cases.   It   also   targets   observing   multiple   users   concurrently.   The   proposed technique will  be constructed  based  on the combinationof  fusion types, feature level,  and  decision  level.  It  will  rely  on  the  long-short  term  memory  (LSTM) techniquethat is   considered   a   deep   neural   network   (DNN) techniquefor sequenced  data.  It  uses  the  power  of  feature  learning  abilityand  improves  the classification of serious  health condition levels.Then using the Dempster-Shafer fusiontechnique for fusion decision.The  proposed  system  enables  monitoring  patients  from  their  homes  that  save governmental  cost  and  time through  measuring  the  changes  in  patient's  medical readings.  Itwillserve  humanity  in  the  reduction  of  Coronavirus  infectionand save  healthcare  members  around  the  world.It  also  saves  hospital  places  for emergency cases.

